



                ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

                          Lewis Carroll

               THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 2.9




                            CHAPTER I

                      Down the Rabbit-Hole


  Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation?'

  So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could,
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!'

  Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curious!' she thought.
`But everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at
once.'  And in she went.

  Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  `Now, I'll manage better this time,' she
said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and
unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went to
work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her
pocked) till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down the
little passage:  and THEN--she found herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool
fountains.



                          CHAPTER VIII

                   The Queen's Croquet-Ground


 
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
`You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you
forget to talk.  I can't tell you just now what the moral of that
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'

  `Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

  `Tut, tut, child!' said the Duchess.  `Everything's got a
moral, if only you can find it.'  And she squeezed herself up
closer to Alice's side as she spoke.

  Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
because the Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.  However, she did not
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.

  `The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.

  `'Tis so,' said the Duchess:  `and the moral of that is--"Oh,
'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'

  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves."'

  `How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to
herself.

  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.

  `Very true,' said the Duchess:  `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock
together."'

  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

  `Right, as usual,' said the Duchess:  `what a clear way you
have of putting things!'

  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

  `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; `and the moral of
that is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise."'

  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't quite follow it
as you say it.'

  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.

  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  `I make you
a present of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.

  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to
fly; and the m--'

  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.

  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'

  The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a
moment's delay would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were playing the Queen never left off
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his
head!' or `Off with her head!'  Those whom she sentenced were
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave
off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the
King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.

  Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to
Alice, `Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

  `No,' said Alice.  `I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.

  `I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

  `Come on, then,' said the Queen, `and he shall tell you his
history,'

  As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low
voice, to the company generally, `You are all pardoned.'  `Come,
THAT'S a good thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite
unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

  They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.  (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
`Up, lazy thing!' said the Queen, `and take this young lady to
see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history.  I must go back and
see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off,
leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon.  Alice did not quite like
the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would
be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage
Queen:  so she waited.

  The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes:  then it watched the
Queen till she was out of sight:  then it chuckled.  `What fun!'
said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.

  `What IS the fun?' said Alice.

  `Why, SHE,' said the Gryphon.  `It's all her fancy, that:  they
never executes nobody, you know.  Come on!'

  `Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,
never!'

  They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and,
as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break.  She pitied him deeply.  `What is his sorrow?' she
asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got
no sorrow, you know.  Come on!'

  So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  But she waited patiently.

  `Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Turtle.'

  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

  `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, `we went to
school in the sea.  The master was an old Turtle--we used to call
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?' Alice asked.

  `We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock
Turtle angrily:  `really you are very dull!'

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At
last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!
Don't be all day about it!' and he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

  `You did,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak
again.  The Mock Turtle went on.

  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; `you needn't be
so proud as all that.'

  `With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

  `Yes,' said Alice, `we learned French and music.'

  `And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

  `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock
Turtle in a tone of great relief.  `Now at OURS they had at the
end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

  `You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; `living at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the Mock Turtle with a
sigh.  `I only took the regular course.'

  `What was that?' inquired Alice.

  `Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock
Turtle replied; `and then the different branches of Arithmetic--
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

  `I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say.  `What
is it?'

  The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.  `What!  Never
heard of uglifying!' it exclaimed.  `You know what to beautify
is, I suppose?'

  `Yes,' said Alice doubtfully:  `it means--to--make--anything--
prettier.'

  `Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, `if you don't know what to
uglify is, you ARE a simpleton.'

  Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about
it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said `What else had you
to learn?'

  `Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting
off the subjects on his flappers, `--Mystery, ancient and modern,
with Seaography:  then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old
conger-eel, that used to come once a week:  HE taught us
Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.'

  `What was THAT like?' said Alice.

  `Well, I can't show it you myself,' the Mock Turtle said:  `I'm
too stiff.  And the Gryphon never learnt it.'

  `Hadn't time,' said the Gryphon:  `I went to the Classics
master, though.  He was an old crab, HE was.'

  `I never went to him,' the Mock Turtle said with a sigh:  `he
taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'

  `So he did, so he did,' said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn;
and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.

  `And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' said Alice, in a
hurry to change the subject.

  `Ten hours the first day,' said the Mock Turtle: `nine the
next, and so on.'

  `What a curious plan!' exclaimed Alice.

  `That's the reason they're called lessons,' the Gryphon
remarked:  `because they lessen from day to day.'

  This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a
little before she made her next remark.  `Then the eleventh day
must have been a holiday?'

  `Of course it was,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `And how did you manage on the twelfth?' Alice went on eagerly.

  `That's enough about lessons,' the Gryphon interrupted in a
very decided tone:  `tell her something about the games now.'



                            CHAPTER X

                      The Lobster Quadrille


  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper
across his eyes.  He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for
a minute or two sobs choked his voice.  `Same as if he had a bone
in his throat,' said the Gryphon:  and it set to work shaking him
and punching him in the back.  At last the Mock Turtle recovered
his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on
again:--

  `You may not have lived much under the sea--' (`I haven't,'
said Alice)--`and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--'
(Alice began to say `I once tasted--' but checked herself hastily,
and said `No, never') `--so you can have no idea what a delightful
thing a Lobster Quadrille is!'

  `No, indeed,' said Alice.  `What sort of a dance is it?'

  `Why,' said the Gryphon, `you first form into a line along the
sea-shore--'

  `Two lines!' cried the Mock Turtle.  `Seals, turtles, salmon,
and so on; then, when you've cleared all the jelly-fish out of
the way--'

  `THAT generally takes some time,' interrupted the Gryphon.

  `--you advance twice--'

  `Each with a lobster as a partner!' cried the Gryphon.

  `Of course,' the Mock Turtle said:  `advance twice, set to
partners--'

  `--change lobsters, and retire in same order,' continued the
Gryphon.

  `Then, you know,' the Mock Turtle went on, `you throw the--'

  `The lobsters!' shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.

  `--as far out to sea as you can--'

  `Swim after them!' screamed the Gryphon.

  `Turn a somersault in the sea!' cried the Mock Turtle,
capering wildly about.

  `Back to land again, and that's all the first figure,' said the
Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures,
who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat
down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.

  `It must be a very pretty dance,' said Alice timidly.

  `Would you like to see a little of it?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Very much indeed,' said Alice.

  `Come, let's try the first figure!' said the Mock Turtle to the
Gryphon.  `We can do without lobsters, you know.  Which shall
sing?'

  `Oh, YOU sing,' said the Gryphon.  `I've forgotten the words.'

  So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now
and then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and
waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle
sang this, very slowly and sadly:--


`"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail.
"There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my
 tail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
They are waiting on the shingle--will you come and join the
dance?

Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
dance?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
dance?


"You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to
                                                      sea!"
But the snail replied "Too far, too far!" and gave a look
                                                       askance--
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the
   dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join
        the dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join
        the dance.

`"What matters it how far we go?" his scaly friend replied.
"There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.
The further off from England the nearer is to France--
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.

    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
         dance?
    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
         dance?"'



  `Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch,' said
Alice, feeling very glad that it was over at last:  `and I do so
like that curious song about the whiting!'

  `Oh, as to the whiting,' said the Mock Turtle, `they--you've
seen them, of course?'

  `Yes,' said Alice, `I've often seen them at dinn--' she
checked herself hastily.

  `I don't know where Dinn may be,' said the Mock Turtle, `but
if you've seen them so often, of course you know what they're
like.'

  `I believe so,' Alice replied thoughtfully.  `They have their
tails in their mouths--and they're all over crumbs.'

  `You're wrong about the crumbs,' said the Mock Turtle:
`crumbs would all wash off in the sea.  But they HAVE their tails
in their mouths; and the reason is--' here the Mock Turtle
yawned and shut his eyes.--`Tell her about the reason and all
that,' he said to the Gryphon.

  `The reason is,' said the Gryphon, `that they WOULD go with
the lobsters to the dance.  So they got thrown out to sea.  So
they had to fall a long way.  So they got their tails fast in
their mouths.  So they couldn't get them out again.  That's all.'

  `Thank you,' said Alice, `it's very interesting.  I never knew
so much about a whiting before.'

  `I can tell you more than that, if you like,' said the
Gryphon.  `Do you know why it's called a whiting?'

  `I never thought about it,' said Alice.  `Why?'

  `IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES.' the Gryphon replied very
solemnly.

  Alice was thoroughly puzzled.  `Does the boots and shoes!' she
repeated in a wondering tone.

  `Why, what are YOUR shoes done with?' said the Gryphon.  `I
mean, what makes them so shiny?'

  Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she
gave her answer.  `They're done with blacking, I believe.'

  `Boots and shoes under the sea,' the Gryphon went on in a deep
voice, `are done with a whiting.  Now you know.'

  `And what are they made of?' Alice asked in a tone of great
curiosity.

  `Soles and eels, of course,' the Gryphon replied rather
impatiently:  `any shrimp could have told you that.'

  `If I'd been the whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were
still running on the song, `I'd have said to the porpoise, "Keep
back, please:  we don't want YOU with us!"'

  `They were obliged to have him with them,' the Mock Turtle
said:  `no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'

  `Wouldn't it really?' said Alice in a tone of great surprise.

  `Of course not,' said the Mock Turtle:  `why, if a fish came
to ME, and told me he was going a journey, I should say "With
what porpoise?"'

  `Don't you mean "purpose"?' said Alice.

  `I mean what I say,' the Mock Turtle replied in an offended
tone.  And the Gryphon added `Come, let's hear some of YOUR
adventures.'

  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `No, no!  The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Rabbit.  She was a little nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

  `It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked at the Gryphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said
the Gryphon.

  `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
    As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

              [later editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
    But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
    His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
said the Gryphon.

  `Well, I never heard it before,' said the Mock Turtle; `but it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way
again.

  `I should like to have it explained,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `She can't explain it,' said the Gryphon hastily.  `Go on with
the next verse.'

  `But about his toes?' the Mock Turtle persisted.  `How COULD
he turn them out with his nose, you know?'

  `It's the first position in dancing.' Alice said; but was
dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the
subject.

  `Go on with the next verse,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently:
`it begins "I passed by his garden."'

  Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would
all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:--

    `I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
    How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie--'

        [later editions continued as follows
    The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
    While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
    When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
    Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
    While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
    And concluded the banquet--]

  `What IS the use of repeating all that stuff,' the Mock Turtle
interrupted, `if you don't explain it as you go on?  It's by far
the most confusing thing I ever heard!'

  `Yes, I think you'd better leave off,' said the Gryphon:  and
Alice was only too glad to do so.

  `Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?' the
Gryphon went on.  `Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you
a song?'

  `Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,'
Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather
offended tone, `Hm! No accounting for tastes!  Sing her "Turtle
Soup," will you, old fellow?'

  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes
choked with sobs, to sing this:--


    `Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
    Waiting in a hot tureen!
    Who for such dainties would not stoop?
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

    `Beautiful Soup!  Who cares for fish,
    Game, or any other dish?
    Who would not give all else for two p
    ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
    Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beauti--FUL SOUP!'

  `Chorus again!' cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had
just begun to repeat it, when a cry of `The trial's beginning!'
was heard in the distance.

  `Come on!' cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand,
it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.

  `What trial is it?' Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon
only answered `Come on!' and ran the faster, while more and more
faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the
melancholy words:--

    `Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!'



                           CHAPTER XI
Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  Where did they draw
the treacle from?'

  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; `so
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' said Alice.

  `Why not?' said the March Hare.

  Alice was silent.

  The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!'

  Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curious!' she thought.
`But everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at
once.'  And in she went.

  Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  `Now, I'll manage better this time,' she
said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and
unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went to
work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her
pocked) till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down the
little passage:  and THEN--she found herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool
fountains.



                          CHAPTER VIII

                   The Queen's Croquet-Ground


  A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden:  the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at
it, busily painting them red.  Alice thought this a very curious
thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up
to them she heard one of them say, `Look out now, Five!  Don't go
splashing paint over me like that!'

  `I couldn't help it,' said Five, in a sulky tone; `Seven jogged
my elbow.'

  On which Seven looked up and said, `That's right, Five!  Always
lay the blame on others!'

  `YOU'D better not talk!' said Five.  `I heard the Queen say only
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!'

  `What for?' said the one who had spoken first.

  `That's none of YOUR business, Two!' said Seven.

  `Yes, it IS his business!' said Five, `and I'll tell him--it
was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'

  Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun `Well, of all
the unjust things--' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as
she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly:  the
others looked round also, and all of them bowed low.

  `Would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, `why you are
painting those roses?'

  Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two.  Two began in a
low voice, `Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to
have been a RED rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake;
and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads
cut off, you know.  So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore
she comes, to--'  At this moment Five, who had been anxiously
looking across the garden, called out `The Queen!  The Queen!'
and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon
their faces.  There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice
looked round, eager to see the Queen.

  First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped
like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and
feet at the corners:  next the ten courtiers; these were
ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the
soldiers did.  After these came the royal children; there were
ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand
in hand, in couples:  they were all ornamented with hearts.  Next
came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice
recognised the White Rabbit:  it was talking in a hurried nervous
manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without
noticing her.  Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the
King's crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this
grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.

  Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on
her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember
every having heard of such a rule at processions; `and besides,
what would be the use of a procession,' thought she, `if people
had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn't see
it?'  So she stood still where she was, and waited.

  When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped
and looked at her, and the Queen said severely `Who is this?'
She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in
reply.

  `Idiot!' said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and,
turning to Alice, she went on, `What's your name, child?'

  `My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,' said Alice very
politely; but she added, to herself, `Why, they're only a pack of
cards, after all.  I needn't be afraid of them!'

  `And who are THESE?' said the Queen, pointing to the three
gardeners who were lying round the rosetree; for, you see, as
they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs
was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether
they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her
own children.

  `How should I know?' said Alice, surprised at her own courage.
`It's no business of MINE.'

  The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her
for a moment like a wild beast, screamed `Off with her head!
Off--'

  `Nonsense!' said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the
Queen was silent.

  The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said
`Consider, my dear:  she is only a child!'

  The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave
`Turn them over!'

  The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.

  `Get up!' said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the
three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the
King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.

  `Leave off that!' screamed the Queen.  `You make me giddy.'
And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, `What HAVE you
been doing here?'

  `May it please your Majesty,' said Two, in a very humble tone,
going down on one knee as he spoke, `we were trying--'

  `I see!' said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the
roses.  `Off with their heads!' and the procession moved on,
three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate
gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection.

  `You shan't be beheaded!' said Alice, and she put them into a
large flower-pot that stood near.  The three soldiers wandered
about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly
marched off after the others.

  `Are their heads off?' shouted the Queen.

  `Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!' the soldiers
shouted in reply.

  `That's right!' shouted the Queen.  `Can you play croquet?'

  The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question
was evidently meant for her.

  `Yes!' shouted Alice.

  `Come on, then!' roared the Queen, and Alice joined the
procession, wondering very much what would happen next.

  `It's--it's a very fine day!' said a timid voice at her side.
She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously
into her face.

  `Very,' said Alice:  `--where's the Duchess?'

  `Hush!  Hush!' said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone.  He
looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised
himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and
whispered `She's under sentence of execution.'

  `What for?' said Alice.

  `Did you say "What a pity!"?' the Rabbit asked.
`How are you getting on?' said the Cat, as soon as there was
mouth enough for it to speak with.

  Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded.  `It's no
use speaking to it,' she thought, `till its ears have come, or at
least one of them.'  In another minute the whole head appeared,
and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the
game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her.  The
Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and
no more of it appeared.

  `I don't think they play at all fairly,' Alice began, in rather
a complaining tone, `and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can't
hear oneself speak--and they don't seem to have any rules in
particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them--and
you've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive;
for instance, there's the arch I've got to go through next
walking about at the other end of the ground--and I should have
croqueted the Queen's hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it
saw mine coming!'

  `How do you like the Queen?' said the Cat in a low voice.

  `Not at all,' said Alice:  `she's so extremely--'  Just then
she noticed that the Queen was close behind her, listening:  so
she went on, `--likely to win, that it's hardly worth while
finishing the game.'

  The Queen smiled and passed on.

  `Who ARE you talking to?' said the King, going up to Alice, and
looking at the Cat's head with great curiosity.

  `It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice:  `allow me
to introduce it.'

  `I don't like the look of it at all,' said the King:  `however,
it may kiss my hand if it likes.'

  `I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.

  `Don't be impertinent,' said the King, `and don't look at me
like that!'  He got behind Alice as he spoke.

  `A cat may look at a king,' said Alice.  `I've read that in
some book, but I don't remember where.'

  `Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, `My dear!  I
wish you would have this cat removed!'

  The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  `Off with his head!' she said, without even looking
round.

  `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game
was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance,
screaming with passion.  She had already heard her sentence three
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.

  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they said.

  The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin
at HIS time of life.

  The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.
(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and anxious.)

  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executioner went off like an arrow.

   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the Dutchess, it had entirely
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and
down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.



                           CHAPTER IX

                     The Mock Turtle's Story


  `You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thing!' said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately
into Alice's, and they walked off together.

  Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and
thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.

  `When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very
hopeful tone though), `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT
ALL.  Soup does very well without--Maybe it's always pepper that
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at
having found out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar
and such things that make children sweet-tempered.  I only wish
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it
nce more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  `Now, I'll manage better this time,' she
said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and
unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went to
work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her
pocked) till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down the
little passage:  and THEN--she found herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool
fountains.



                          CHAPTER VIII

                   The Queen's Croquet-Ground


 
  `How are you getting on?' said the Cat, as soon as there was
mouth enough for it to speak with.

  Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded.  `It's no
use speaking to it,' she thought, `till its ears have come, or at
least one of them.'  In another minute the whole head appeared,
and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the
game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her.  The
Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and
no more of it appeared.

  `I don't think they play at all fairly,' Alice began, in rather
a complaining tone, `and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can't
hear oneself speak--and they don't seem to have any rules in
particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them--and
you've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive;
for instance, there's the arch I've got to go through next
walking about at the other end of the ground--and I should have
croqueted the Queen's hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it
saw mine coming!'

  `How do you like the Queen?' said the Cat in a low voice.

  `Not at all,' said Alice:  `she's so extremely--'  Just then
she noticed that the Queen was close behind her, listening:  so
she went on, `--likely to win, that it's hardly worth while
finishing the game.'

  The Queen smiled and passed on.

  `Who ARE you talking to?' said the King, going up to Alice, and
looking at the Cat's head with great curiosity.

  `It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice:  `allow me
to introduce it.'

  `I don't like the look of it at all,' said the King:  `however,
it may kiss my hand if it likes.'

  `I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.

  `Don't be impertinent,' said the King, `and don't look at me
like that!'  He got behind Alice as he spoke.

  `A cat may look at a king,' said Alice.  `I've read that in
some book, but I don't remember where.'

  `Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, `My dear!  I
wish you would have this cat removed!'

  The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  `Off with his head!' she said, without even looking
round.

  `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game
was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance,
screaming with passion.  She had already heard her sentence three
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.

  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they said.

  The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin
at HIS time of life.

  The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.
(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and anxious.)

  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executioner went off like an arrow.

   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the Dutchess, it had entirely
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and
down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.



                           CHAPTER IX

                     The Mock Turtle's Story


  `You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thing!' said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately
into Alice's, and they walked off together.

